# Planning HPC Python at HPC2N and UPPMAX

## Materials pages

- material: https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/index.html
- source: https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/docs

## Dates autumn 2025

See [the course schedule](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/docs/schedule.rst)

- 27-28 Nov and 1-2 Dec

## Meeting of 2025-11-14 13:00-14:00

- [RB] I think most of us will fill in case of a teacher needing to be absent due to family issues. If needed, just give me a slot and let me know. Also, I volunteer to take over teaching at the last minute.
- [RB] I cannot teach on Day 2 (Friday)
  at 15:45-16:00, which is the evaluation.
  Can someone take over?
      - Björn volunteers to do so :+1:
- [Sahar] I have already discussed my role with Richel and Björn, and the plan as below. Rebecca and Jayant, please let me know if this also works for you.
For this first run of the course, I would prefer to mainly observe and assist where needed:
    - Day 1 and Day 2: I will observe Richel’s sessions and help during exercises and in the Alvis breakout room.
    - [RB] Awesome! I will contact Sahar
    - Day 3: I can observe the Big Data/analysis parts and Pandas and support participants during the exercises.
    - Day 4: I am also happy to assist Jayant during the ML/DL session.
- [RP] When is the deadline for exercises?
    - it seems the tarball has some old files, e.g. 'Day 4'
    - the evening before the course day
    - one ball per day
- There is a [NAISS project overview](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/common/naiss_projects_overview.html) that can be used
- [Sahar] For the next event, I would be glad to take on a supporting/backup role in the sessions, in addition to answering questions and I am happy to step in for teaching if the main teachers would like:
    - Day 1: Working with Python scripts (11:15–12:00), plus variables/expressions in Day 2.
    - [RB] Awesome! I will contact Sahar
    - Day 3: Pandas and Big Data sections as backup for Björn and Rebecca.
    - Day 4: ML/DL content together with Jayant if needed.
- 31 registration as of 2025-11-14

## [Notes from previous meeting](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/meeting_notes/20251107.md)

