# Meeting 14 Feb 2025

## Agenda

- Status
- Follow-up from last meeting: 
    - schedule/teachers
- Discussions
- Next meeting
- ToDos

## Status

- Advertisement out
    - Day 1: Log in and use Basic Python in a cluster environment
    - Day 2: Use and install packages with pip and conda in virtual environments and doing basic analysis interactively
    - Day 3-4: Deeper analysis with pandas and seaborn, HPC usage with big data, parallelisms and Machine Learning with and without GPUs.
- Registration is active

## Follow-up from last meeting

### What goes to which day? And Teachers

- Earlier sessions from HPC-python (to be placed out)
    - [x] intro (just first day?) [name=RB]
    - [x] load (just first day?) [name=RB]
    - [x] install packages (expanded) [name=BC]
    - [x] Compute nodes [name=BB]
        - [x] batch [name=BB]
        - [x] interactive [name=B]
        - [x] Desktop on demand [name=RP]
        - [x] IDEs [name=BB]
    - [x] matplotlib [name=RP]
    - [x] GPU [name=BB]
    - [x] Pandas [name=RP]
    - [x] seaborn etc [name=RP]
    - [x] parallel [name=PO]
    - [x] big data and formats [name=BC]
    - [x] Dimensionality reduction? [name=AH]
    - [x] ML/DL [name=JY]

### Day 1 (copied from [NAISS 'Intro to Python'](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/schedule/))

:warning: Does not include loading a module
- BC: could we have "loading lmod module" here?
    - Yes it is included
- We must make videos and follow GDPR laws, as demanded by the HPC2N training coordinator 
    - Can send pre-recorded videos
    - Can send post-recorded videos
    - Birgitte will edit in-lesson recordings, if shared documents (without names) are used and not too much dialogues
        - Pedro and Yayant want this :-)
- Why do our videos have comments disabled?
    - Because at HPC2N this was decided
    


Time        | Topic                                                         |Teacher
------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|-------
09:00-10:00 | Using the Python interpreter, includes login                  |Richel
10:00-10:15 | Break                                                         |.
10:15-11:00 | The way of the program, includes creating and running a script|Richel
11:00-11:15 | Break                                                         |.
11:15-12:00 | Working with Python scripts                                   |Richel
12:00-13:00 | Break                                                         |.
13:00-14:00 | Variables, expressions and statements: variables              |Richel
14:00-14:15 | Break                                                         |.
14:15-15:00 | Variables, expressions and statements: operators              |Richel
15:00-15:15 | Break                                                         |.
15:15-15:45 | Variables, expressions and statements: user input             |Richel
15:45-16:00 | Evaluation                                                    |Richel

### Day 2

- [VOTED] IDEs
- Packages
- matplotlib
- ??pandas here already?

- Suggestions from Björn

Time        | Topic                          |Teacher
------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------
09:00-10:00 | Packages                       | Richel
10:00-10:15 | Break                          |.
10:15-11:00 | Isolated environments conda/pip| Björn+Richel (co-teaching)
11:00-11:15 | Break           |.
11:15-12:00 | Basic Slurm and interactive, ?OnDemand,?parallel session|Birgitte
12:00-13:00 | Break|.
13:00-14:00 | IDEs: Jupyter/vscode/Spyder [1] |Jayant
14:00-14:15 | Break|.
14:15-15:00 | matplotlib 1/2|?Rebecca, else Björn
15:00-15:15 | Break|.
15:15-15:45 | matplotlib 2/2|?Rebecca, else Björn
15:45-16:00 | Evaluation|.

- [1] Spyder only works on LUNARC, for an old version. Using virtual environments may get this to work on other session. Björn will investigate this :+1:

### Day 3

Deeper analysis with pandas and seaborn, HPC usage with big data, parallelisms and Machine Learning with and without GPUs.


Time       | Topic |Teacher
-----------|-----------|-----------------------
09:00-10:00 | Pandas | ?Rebecca ?Richel
10:00-10:15 | Break
10:15-11:00 | Pandas (enough time?)| ?Rebecca  ?Richel
11:00-11:15 | Break|.
11:15-12:00 | Seaborn (enough time)?| ?Rebecca  ?Björn
12:00-13:00 | Break|.
13:00-14:00 | Slurm and batch jobs|Birgitte
14:00-14:15 | Break|.
14:15-15:00 | Formats and Big data |Björn (more time than earlier)
15:00-15:15 | Break|.
15:15-15:45 | Formats and Big Data |Björn
15:45-16:00 | Evaluation|.

### Day 4
Deeper analysis with pandas and seaborn, HPC usage with big data, parallelisms and Machine Learning with and without GPUs.

- Suggestions from Björn

Time        | Topic          |Teacher
------------|----------------|--------------------
09:00-10:00 | Parallelism    |Pedro
10:00-10:15 | Break          |.
10:15-11:00 | Parallelism    |Pedro
11:00-11:15 | Break          |.
11:15-12:00 | GPU, batch jobs|Birgitte
12:00-13:00 | Break          |.
13:00-14:00 | ML/DL          |Jayant
14:00-14:15 | Break          |.
14:15-15:00 | ML/DL          |Jayant
15:00-15:15 | Break          |.
15:15-15:45 | ML/DL          |Jayant + Anders Hast
15:45-16:00 | Evaluation     |.

## Discussions
- Still 2 repos?
    - Pro: [Intro to Python](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/) (Day 1) is given separately more often
    - **Yes**: BC, BB, PO, RB, JY
    - No:
- MkDocs? [Candidate NAISS course template](https://github.com/UPPMAX/naiss_course_template)
    - **Yes**: RB, JY, BB, BC
    - No: PO
- Transition to MkDocs now?
    - Yes: RB, BB, BC, JY
    - No: PO
- How:
    - parallel file tree in `docs` folder
        - not needed
        - rst and md files in same dir structure

- Python versions: which one? 
    - There were problems last time on Tetralith, we can request updates in time :+1:
    - Who will talk to NSC?
        - First find out if there is a problem at all, else BB will send an email :-)
    - Use same as last time? v3.11.>4
        - Yes: RB, 
        - No: 

- Problems with virtual environments?
    - On Tetralith we think this happened, we created a virtual environment to solved

## Next meeting

- Week 9: Friday 28th February 11:00-12:00


## ToDos

- All: 
    - Look at evaluation and think about changes
    - LOs
    - Tests on Dardel 
        - teacher
    - [ ] Björn: HPC2N need access to UPPMAX project for training
    - Check packages on Dardel and possible solutions
- Someone   
    - ask NSC/PDC(?) of updates


# Ad for newsletter


## Living ad 

**Online training course: Using Python in an HPC environment, 24-25 and 28-29 April 2025**
_Collaboration between UPPMAX, HPC2N and LUNARC_

This online 4-day workshop aims to give a brief, but comprehensive introduction to using Python in a Swedish academic High-Performance Computing (HPC) environment. It covers a wide range of levels in using Python and you can decide which days to follow. 

**The content of the different days are**

- Day 1: Log in and use Basic Python in a cluster environment
- Day 2: Use and install packages with pip and conda in virtual environments and doing basic analysis interactively
- Day 3-4: Deeper analysis with pandas and seaborn, HPC usage with big data, parallelisms and Machine Learning with and without GPUs.

**Remote/online participation:** We will use Zoom. More information about connecting and about accounts and course projects and such will be sent to the participants close to the course. Tetralith at NSC will mainly be used for demos but written material should guide users within academic Sweden on the resources they already are using. 

**Prerequisites:** Familiarity with the Linux command line. Basic Python is NOT required, but recommended. Attend the first day for an introduction! 

**Date and time:** 24-25 & 28-29 April, 9-17 each day. 

For more info and registration, please visit: https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2025/spring/hpc-python

## Living long document that can be merged into webpage document

**Online training course: Using Python in an HPC environment, 24-25 and 28-29 April 2025**
_Collaboration between UPPMAX, HPC2N and LUNARC_

This online 4-day workshop aims to give a brief, but comprehensive introduction to using Python in a Swedish academic High-Performance Computing (HPC) environment. It covers a wide range of levels in using Python and you can decide which days to follow. 

If you are a complete beginner, perhaps the first day(s) is sufficient for you, but you may follow the other days as well for inspiration. If you already are a Python programmer you could still benefit from attending the login session the first day.

**The goals of the different days are**

Day 1: 
- Log in to a cluster and load python interpreter
- Use variables, expressions and statements with Python

Day 2:
- Load and use site-installed Python modules
- Use and install python packages with pip and/or Conda
- Use virtual environments
- Ask for compute resources, write batch scripts 
- Do basic analysis with Matplotlib in Jupyter

Day 3-4:
- Use compute resources and batch jobs, including parallelism, GPUs and big data
- Use Pandas and Seaborn
- Use Python for ML

**Remote/online participation:** We will use Zoom. More information about connecting and about accounts and course projects and such will be sent to the participants close to the course. Tetralith at NSC will mainly be used for demos but written material should guide users within academic Sweden on the resources they already are using. 

**Prerequisites:** Familiarity with the Linux command line. Basic Python is NOT required, but recommended. Attend the first day for an introduction! 

**Date and time:** 24-25 & 28-29 April, 9-17 each day. 

For more info and registration, please visit: https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2025/spring/hpc-python


## Old 

Online training course: Using Python in an HPC environment, 5-6 December 2024
_Collaboration between UPPMAX, HPC2N, and LUNARC_

This two-day online course aims to give a brief, but comprehensive introduction to using Python in an HPC environment. You will learn how to use modules to load Python, how to find site installed Python packages, as well as how to install packages yourself. In addition, you will learn how to use virtual environments, write a batch script for running Python, use Python in parallel, and how to use Python for ML and on GPUs. In addition, the second day will be more advanced, with a focus on Pandas.  

The course is a cooperation between UPPMAX, HPC2N, and LUNARC. The instructors will use UPPMAX's systems for demos and there will be hands-on exercises for the participants.

This course will consist of lectures interspersed with hands-on sessions where you get to try out what you have just learned.

Remote/online participation: The course will be completely online and we will use Zoom. More information about connecting and such will be sent to the participants close to the course.

The goal for the course is that you will be able to
•	Load Python modules and site-installed Python packages
•	Create a virtual environment and install your own Python packages to it
•	Write a batch script for running Python
•	Use Python in parallel
•	Use Python for ML
•	Use GPUs with Python
•	Use pandas
•	Learn about matplotlib

•	Prerequisites: familiarity with the LINUX command line, basic Python

•	Date and time: 5-6 December 2024, 9-17 each day. 

•	For more info and registration, please visit: https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2024/fall/hpc-python



