# Planning HPC Python at HPC2N and UPPMAX

## Meeting April 2nd 13:00-14:00

- Status: 
    - BC + RB: on schedule (Friday morning session)
    - RP: prioritized Matplotlib course

- Project status:
    - No Alvis
    - [x] HPC2N: approved, valid April 10th, `hpc2n2025-076`
    - [x] LUNARC: approved, `LU 2025/7-34`, valid from April 15th
    - [x] UPPMAX: BC can do (directory name with uppmax ending or similar)
    - [x] PDC: approved, valid April 10th, `NAISS 2025/22-403`
      (this is the only new system in this course)
    - [x] NSC: approved, valid April 10th, `naiss2025-22-403`

- Some doc is both in RST (`.rst`) and MkDocs (`.md`).
  Solution is to delete the `.md` file (until we start using
  MkDocs), else the markdown will be used,
  or dump in `MkDocs` folder
- JY: [InfraVis](https://infravis.se/news-events/) links to us. We should
  link back more often
    - [ ] BB: will make collaboration with InfraVis more visible
      at the course's website
    - [x] JY: will contact NAISS's Joachim Hein
    - [x] JY: improves names at [https://infravis.se/introduction-to-python-and-using-python-in-an-hpc-environment/](Infravis course page):
        - 'Richèl Bilderbeek' is missing
        - It is 'Rebecca (singular) Pitts'
        - JY + RP: How to do so? We'll talk in the chat :-)
    - NSC: is no collaborator, we only use their system. 
      Also Erik Lindahl would prefer to remove names of centers, to make
      NAISS be more like one big unit.
    - Add NSC and PDC as a collaborator, e.g. to add Alvis?
        - 'NAISS Intro to Python' does use Alvis
- [RB, suggestion] Last meeting, we spoke about measuring the 
  learners' confidence levels at the end **and start** of the day,
  so we can see the increase of confidence in topics. I suggest to try this
  out for each of the days: I think it will be an insightful experiment
      - [DECIDED] Yes: BC, RP (if time), BB, 
      - Neutral/abstain: PO
      - No:
- Evaluation frequency:
    - [DECIDED] Per day: BC, BB, JY, RB, PO

- To discuss
    - [SKIP] Should everyone make intro each day?
        - To each prevaluation
        - To each day's tarball
    - Should there be a tarball with exercises for every day,
      or just use one that contains all exercises for all days?
      - [DECIDED] Having one for each day: RB, BB, BC, JY
      - Having one big for all days:
    - RB+BC think login is included on Thursday
      (as the day before, at the 'NAISS Intro to Python' day, this is practiced).
      If the learner chooses not to take that day, we assume he/she did the prereqs,
      which assumes that a learner can login
          - [OK] Yes: BC, RB, BB, RP (and be clear about it), PO
          - No: 
    - RB+BC think modules is included in the Thursday.
      (as the day before, at the 'NAISS Intro to Python' day, this is practiced).
      If learner is not there it is a prereq.
        - [DECIDED] Yes: BC, RB, BB (and be clear about it), JY, RP, PO
            - [ ] BC/RB: Update prereqs to be clear about this
            - [ ] BC + RB: Update webpages to be clear about this
             - [ ] BB: Update email to be clear about this
         - No: 
    - Naming of days in the GitHub repository.
      Currently, these are `docs/day1`, `docs/day2` and `docs/day3`,
      where the 'NAISS Intro to Python' is the ultimate beginner's first day
        - Use weekdays, i.e. `friday`, `monday`, `tuesday`
            - No: RB, BB, BC
            - Yes:
        - Start day 1 with introduction repo, i.e. `day2`, `day3` and `day4`
            - No:
            - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, BB, RP, BC
        - start day 1 on Friday referring to HPC-only part
          (keeping all the same),
          i.e. keep `day1`, `day2` and `day3`
            - No:
            - Yes: PO, BB, RP
        - use title of the day, as called in the menu, e.g. `content 1`, `content 2`, `content 3`
            - No: RP
            - Yes: RB
    - Naming of menu content name
        - day1-3: RB
        - [DECIDED] day1-4: JY, PO, BB, RP
        - day2-4: BB, RB, 
        - [DECIDED] title of the day (used for other courses): BC, RB, BB, RP, JY
            - Example: 
                - Basic Analysis and packaging (day2)
                - Using the HPC resources (day 3)
                - Advanced HPC resources (day 4)
            - Til next time think of namings


- ToDos
    - [x] BC: renaming day+1
    - [x] BC: put files in correct day 
        - [x] started
    - [x] BC: fix index menu names and correct links
    - [ ] BC: Fix extra part like for R-MATLAB-Julia workshop
    - [ ] Contact PDC for things we need in the course,
      e.g. how to use conda, in #python-and-conda Matrix chat

Next meeting:

- Thursday April 10th 15:00-16:00, then end with debriefing of
  R-MATLAB-Julia course

[Notes from previous meeting](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/meeting_notes/20250307.md), [link to schedule on course website](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/schedule.html)
