# Planning HPC Python at HPC2N and UPPMAX

## Materials pages

- material: https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/index.html
- source: https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/docs

## Dates autumn 2025

See [the course schedule](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/docs/schedule.rst)

- 27-28 Nov and 1-2 Dec

## Meeting Friday 7 Nov 13:00-14:00

### Agenda

- Decisions reviewed
- Schedule
- Admin

### Decisions reviewed

- RB: [It was decided](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blame/main/meeting_notes/20251017.md#L28) to delay converting the course website to May 2025. Can we start converting to MkDocs?
    - Yes: RB
    - [RESULT] No, delay again: 251017 we decided **spring 2026!** Sorry for not being clear
- RB: [It was decided](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blame/main/meeting_notes/20251104.md#L30) to 'have more time for packages (either taken from first hour or continuing after 11'. Taking this away from the first hour is a bad idea: I need that time :-)
    - [DECIDED] OK! Let's look at timings for Day 2

- RB: reminder that downloading the tarball is [an exercise that I do in the first hour and have scheduled the time for](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/day2/intro.html#exercise-2-downloading-and-extracting-the-exercises). In general, you can assume all learners present have done so.
- RB: as mentioned [in last meeting](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blame/main/meeting_notes/20251104.md#L32) 'batch jobs are really supposed to be on this day, but when? after IDEs or directly?', but there was nothing decided. I hope we can vote on some suggestions:
    - Move batch jobs to day 3 (as [day 3 has 'batch jobs' in its tile](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/docs/schedule.rst#day-3-batch-jobs-and-big-data)):
    - Move batch jobs after IDEs, let course end after 16:00:
    - Keep batch jobs before IDEs, let course end after 16:00:
    - Schedule 1 hour for IDEs (instead of 2): RB
    - [DECIDED I guess...] BC: I do think we have short intro before interactive

- BC Suggestion: Can we use 2024a/2024.X toolchains for all python bundles (Python 3.12.3)?
    - BC can ask NSC if they can install extra.

- PO: For the Parallelism session, I want to change the questions in the evaluation:

"I can start a script that uses parallel code" -> "I know the basics of the different parallelization tools in Python"

"I can measure the effect of using more nodes for parallel code" -> "I know how a simple for loop can be parallelized with Multiprocessing and how it can run on multiple cores"



### Schedule

#### Day2

- Install packages/envs needs to expand after 11. Hence we need to change timings.

- How much more? 15

- [Active schedule](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/docs/schedule.rst#day-2-packages-and-basic-analysis)

#### Proposed schedule

- Envs +15 m
- Slurm 45
- interactive 45
    - from terminal
    - CPU/GPU terminal on demand
- IDEs1: starting only 45
    - demos+instructions 30
    - exercise 15 m
- IDEs2: using 45
    - theory about different IDEs plus 
    - some demoing
    - using environments
    - exercises
        - script


|Time        | Topic| 
|----|---|
|09:00-9:50  |`use-packages`              |
|9:50-10:05  | Break    |
|10:05-10:55 | `install-packages`         |
|            | `use-isolated-environments`| 
|10:55-11:10 | Break          |
|11:10-11:30 | use-isolated-environments cont'd | 
|11:30-12:00 | Basic batch/Slurm             |12:00-13:00 | Break      |
|13:00-13:50 | Interactive/On-Demand terminals |                         |
13:50-14:05 | Break   |
|14:05-14:40 | IDEs 1: On-Demand/Interactive?|
|14:40-14:55 | IDEs 2a: Jupyter/vscode/Spyder (demo) |14:55-15:10 | Break                                                 |
|15:10-15:45 | IDEs 2b: Jupyter/vscode/Spyder (exercise)                      |
|15:45-16:00 | Evaluation| 

#### Content of afternoon sessions

- Basic batch/slurm (Birgitte) 30 m
    - some batch here
- Interactive through terminal / ondemand and then starting terminal through it 50
    - Birgitte does interactive terminal intro + brief ondemand intro (20m)
    - Björn present starting IDEs from terminal on compute node (30)
- IDES1  (Rebecca)
    - starting 3 IDEs & interactive terminal via on demand (no Spyder on HPC2N) (20m + 20m)
- IDES2 (Jayant)
    - working in IDEs
    - presentation of differences demo
    - choose one for exercise

### New clusters
- Pelle!
- Berzelius
    - not this time
- Also not Sigma


#### Admin

- Course projects
    - numbers
        - Alvis, Tetralith, Dardel: naiss2025-22-934
    - local
        - Kebnekaise: hpc2n2025-151
        - Cosmos:
        - Pelle: uppmax2025-2-393
- Registered
    - 21
    - do we ask for which day? (add in future?)
        - in future YES
- Lower limit?
    - BC: related to number of course hours? 3(4) x 6 hrs = 18(24) hrs
        - ALT: count on daily basis
    - If lower than 50%(?) one week before, cancel?

#### New clusters

- Berzelius?
    - Björn just got access...
    - Peter Münger has now added the default allocation on Berzelius to the NAISS support staff project NAISS 2025/22-395 (Project Title: Test allocation for access for NAISS support staff). 

## [Notes from previous meeting](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/meeting_notes/20251104.md)

