## Meeting 17 Oct

### Agenda

- Action points from last meeting
- Schedule
- Admin

### Action points (DECIDED in May)
- More InfraVis-like collaborations demoing usecases
    - When? **ML afternoon** 2 Dec 
    - Data visualization
    - This iteration? Yes
    - Who does? Jayant
- Move 'Slurm and batch jobs' from Day 3 to Day 2: 
    - BC: We already had the introduction?
    - OK toatally second day
- Pinning versions on the clusters (already doing it partially)
- prereqs
    - courses
        - login/transfer
        - modules
        - slurm: keep condensed session focus on Python
- Will will run Markdown next time
    - Still yes??
    - BC: MkDocs should be used then directly
        - 2-step is too expensive (md with sphinx)
    - Delay to May: BC, PO, RP, JY, BB
- Times
    - Have 15m always
    - Lunch 60 min 
- Give Anders Hast more time
    - In ML session: YES
- DECIDED Mark exercises as **important** and optional: RB, BB, BC
- IDEs: keep the schedule as it is
    - DECIDED Present all 3 IDEs but parallel exercise tracks (where learners decide themselves): BC, RP,  
- Videos
    - DECIDED Youtube playlist + table on course web (also NAISS web)
    - the latest available (living table)

#### Not decided because postponed 

- Recordings
    - DECIDED: always before or during 

- Exercise rooms (perhaps later decision)
    - Let teachers decide how they teach: RB
    - always try to keep 2-3 persons in each room (BC and RB has good experience here): RB
    - larger rooms: RB
    - cluster rooms: RB
    - combination of above: RB
- [Richel] One fun thing we did in another course, is to let the learners rename themselves, to include the cluster name, e.g. `Thora` becomes `[Dardel] Thora`
    - Let teachers decide how they teach: RB
    - Let's do this in the introduction: RB
- [Richel] In some courses we measure the initial confidence our learners have at the start,
  such as [Day 1](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/evaluations/20250424/#analysis-pre-and-post).
  What about we do this at the other days too?
    - Never measure the initial confidence: RB, RP
    - Keep it as it is: RB
    - DECIDED Let's try to measure the initial confidence at **each **day: RB, BC, BB
    - Need to formulate well in such case
- BB: Interconnected courses: we need to connect our courses better
    - Use a working group (i.e. one working group per workshop): BC, RB
    - Agree: RB, BB
    - Not yet:
    - No:
    - Just make sure students know which courses should be taken in what order - need to decide on "curriculum"?
- JY: ML/DL should be more about workflows than core principles.
  Core principles should be its own separate course.
    - Yes (next time): BC
    - no 
- JY: Do HPC centeres have the packages by Google Collabs?
    - yes: 
    - no: To be discusses in future
- JY: Recording professionalisms, there are better tools than Zoom
    - Postpone
- JY: How to do recordings, i.e. blurring out names?
    - BB: knows the GDPR rules
    - Postpone

### [Schedule](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/docs/schedule.rst)

#### Input
- less of matplotlib, pandas, seaborn
    - DECIDED keep some: BC
        - (good to understand how to make graphics avail and as prereq to big data)? BC
        - matplot/pandas 45-50 m x 1
            - load+examples+what they can get out of it + workflows
            - before big data; mention ML prep, memory-saving datatypes
    - <s>VOTE remove all? RP (overruled)</s>

#### Fri
- **Theme: packages and IDEs + basic HPC including batch jobs and allocating GPUs?**
- load-run (skip or shorten because included in first day?)
- longer with packages (perhaps input from pavlin about pixi and uv)
- intro to slurm and interactive (only)
- IDEs
- we are lacking analysis: should we remove all YES
#### Mon
- **Theme: Running and analysing**
- GPU (intro + Python specific)
- analyzing: short versions of earlier (matplotlib, pandas, seaborn)
- big data (dask)
- we are lacking analysis: should we remove all?
#### Tue
- **Theme: ML and development?**
- parallelism in morning 2 hrs
- ML

### Todos
- Bj√∂rn renews schedule
- Further details discussed in chat

## [Notes from previous meeting](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/meeting_notes/20250522.md)
