# 3-day Introduction to running R, Julia, MATLAB in HPC

## Second debriefing meeting May 21 at 14

## Overall thoughts

- BC
    - now there are new courses, relevant as prereqs 
        - (enough to understand the material)
        - NAISS modules course
        - NAISS Slurm course
        - (linux 101)
        - (courses with login session)
            - ([NAISS file transfer](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_file_transfer_course/))
            - ([NAISS intro to Python](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/))
            - (which other?)
        - Q: Should we keep having an optional login session?
            - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, RP, BC, BB
            - No: 
        - Q: Should we have other courses as prequisites?
            - Yes:
            - No: RB
            - [DECIDED] No, but link to it from the prerequisites: RB, BC, LS
        - Q: Should we add fetching the tarball in the login (and preparation) session?
            - Yes: BC, PO
            - [DECIDED] No: BB (it would take away course time for people that do not do this, they will not read/do it, will give me more admin), LS, RP
        - Q: Should we have the Zoom link in the tarball?
            - Yes:
            - [DECIDED] No: RB, BB, BC, RP, LS
    - suggestions
        - cover HPC-specific topics (e.g. the module system, the job scheduler) enough
          to be confident and comfortable in doing the exercises
              - [BC] Knowing HPC clusters minimally is in the prereqs
              - [RB] Great idea! Let's be focused!
        - [ ] Let prerequisites point more to other courses
          (e.g. the module system, the job scheduler)
              - [DECIDED, BC seems willing to do this] Yes: BC, BB, LS
              - No: 
        - theory minimized, just get started!
            - like:
                - train writing a batch script
            - [Richel] Great idea! We know that lecturing affects learning negatively,
              based on multiple meta-analyses `[Reference 3]`
        - focus on specific needs for the specific language
        - cluster understanding in preparations

- Evaluation results, with fancy graphs:
    - R: https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250324_r
    - MATLAB: https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250325_matlab
    - Julia: https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250326_julia
    - All 3 courses combined: https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/202503_courses

- [Richel] I think following the **pedagogic literature has a bigger impact**
  than reading/discussing the evaluations and/or following our instincts
  `[Reference 1]`
      - BB: the evaluations are more important, because they are from our actual participants
          - BB: Yes, we should not follow our instincts. I think we should maybe check confidence level before and after in different topics and  see if they learned more about how to do what they need in their research. 
          - BB: I also am not sure studies on teaching in regular (longer) courses (university courses, like algebra etc.) can be compared to a short, directed course on specific topics like what we give. 
             - RB: Some things do transfer, e.g. the list of recommendations (as
            these are from cognitive science) in `Reference 2`
             - BB: Still not sure they transfer, actually
      - LS: literature discussing university students, from anywhere in the world, at least from the second year onward should be applicable to PhD students
          - RB: Even though there are differences, 
            I still feel following these guidelines is superior over following our instincts
      - PO: the literature referred to is about scholars
          - RB: This is false, the reference I cite is from cognitive science
          - RB: could you refer a paper to me?
      - PO: if you only focus on numbers, you should focus on the material
          - RB: are there useful numbers in the course?
              - PO: Yes, the confidences are useful
      - PO: you can always find a point that can back you up
          - RB: and meta-analysis?
              - PO: those are good
          - LS: people are different, these studies will always be full of contradictions, but well-done studies should (eventually) find the useful patterns - even though they may be many


- [Richel] I think the **camera recordings do more harm than good**,
  as it kills interactivity during class, at the minimal gain
  of people outside of class being able to see these recordings `[Reference 2]`.
    - BB: Too much interactivity is problematic for me, it confuses me, stops
      my train of thought. I prefer the linear way of doing it
    - PO: I also prefer the BB approach
    - RB: We should not assume our learners are like us
        - BB: But they are similar to us: we are scientists, they are scientists
    - PO: We should assume a broad audience, hence we will have people
      that prefer interactive and non-interactive
    - LS: Indeed (agreeing with BB), the train of thought gets interrupted
      when people talk. However, when learning something,
      I found that I do learn best when
      I interact. ?A solution would be to let people interact with each other
    - BB: Lecture and group sessions gives both the interactive and non-interactive.
      This helped a lot
    - BC: (to LS) Working in group rooms, did that work well for you?
        - LS: Yes
    - LS: If you add more ways of learning, i.e. ways to interact with
      the material, this always helps
    - BB: Maybe we should make time for group sessions, where they can interact
    - RP: What works well for me, is splitting up in mini-sessions of 20 mins
    - BB: What about splittig up an hour in 3 sessions of 10-15 mins of monologue,
      then a group session?
    - BC: It is always good to divide up material in a part that should be
      covered, versus what is optional
        - BB, RB, LS: Agreed

- [Richel] I think we should **convert the GitHub repo of this course to MkDocs**,
  over waiting for Erik Lindahl to pick an MkDocs theme
      - Yes: RB, PO, BB 
      - [DECIDED] Yes, using a parallel file tree on `main`
        (e.g. `docs` for sphinx, `doc` for markdown): RB, BB, BC, PO, RP
      - No:
      - Use development branch:
      - Postpone until June: BC 
      - Postpone until August:
- [Richel] I think **we should pick an MkDocs theme**, 
  over waiting for Erik Lindahl to do so
      - Yes: RB, BB, 
      - No: 
      - Postpone until August: BC, BB
- [Richel] I think we should pick the MkDocs **theme most of us like**:
      - materials (e.g. [NAISS File Transfer](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_file_transfer_course/)):  RB
      - ReadTheDocs theme (e.g. [NAISS Intermediate bash](https://uppmax.github.io/linux-command-line-201/)): BB
      - Material with ReadTheDocs theme (e.g. at Chalmers): BB
      - [other themes here]
      - [DECIDED] Wait until Midsommar, if there is no decision we pick: BB, BC, RB
- Course dates
    - **6-8 October** can we split or to late?
        - [DECIDED] Keep the same dates: RB, BB, BC
        - Change dates:
    - [Richel] Can we select an order?
        - [DECIDED] R, MATLAB, Julia (like last time): RB, BB, BC
        - [other order]:

Next meeting:

- Wednesday 4th June 13:00-14:00: all languages

### References

- `[Reference 1]` 
  For example 'long lectures and presentations will fail because students stop viewing and listening
  after about six minutes'
  [Nilson, Linda B., and Ludwika A. Goodson. Online teaching at its best: 
  Merging instructional design with teaching and learning research. John Wiley & Sons, 2021].
  From the same book, the 25 principes of learning from cognitive science (chapter 4, page 92)
  gives some great pointers, e.g. '2. Students learn [...] better [...] by engaging in an activity
  than when they passively watch [...] an instructor', 
  '6. Some qualities [...] help students learn [...] better [...]: human faces, [...] instructor enthusiasm'.
- `[Reference 2]` 
  Using them as a supplementary tool may not be worth it in our settings,
  as 'No performance advantage was found for viewing recordings despite students'
  positive perception of their utility.'
  [Lesser, Melissa, and Lora Packel. "Educational Lessons from a Pandemic: 
  Lecture Recording and Learning Outcomes." 
  Internet Journal of Allied Health Sciences and Practice 22.2 (2024): 9., 
  [Link to paper](https://nsuworks.nova.edu/ijahsp/vol22/iss2/9/)]
  or 'The main finding is that students using the online lectures 
  as a substitute for attending lectures are ultimately 
  at a fairly severe disadvantage in terms of their final marks'
  [Williams, Andrew, Elisa Birch, and Phil Hancock. "The impact of online lecture recordings on student performance."
  Australasian Journal of Educational Technology 28.2 (2012), 
  [Link to paper](https://ajet.org.au/index.php/AJET/article/view/869)].
  I found most experimental papers do not compare with live recording (it
  is usual pre-recorded versus an unrecorded/live lesson).
  The exception is a paper that does recommend the recording live webinars,
  although it admits that 
  '[Webinars tend] to be less engaging and less interactive for the participant'
  [Dailey-Hebert, Amber. "Maximizing interactivity in online learning: 
  Moving beyond discussion boards." Journal of Educators Online 15.3 (2018): n3.,
  [paper](https://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ1199230)].
- `Referece 3`
  From [Hattie, John. Visible learning: The sequel: A synthesis of over 2,100 meta-analyses relating to
  achievement. Routledge, 2023, page 363]: the effect size of lecturing is -0.26
  with a robustness index of 4 out of 5 and is based on 3 meta analyses
  using 273 studies using 27,296 people, measuring for 614 effects with a standard error of 0.08. 
  One example open access study is [Knight, Jennifer K., and William B. Wood. "Teaching more by
  lecturing less." Cell biology education 4.4 (2005): 298-310]


### R

- Evaluations
    - [R evaluation survey, results](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UNlFDSDVIVFdFTjI3UEoyV1pRMUY1SExHTS4u): 
full version attached
    - [on GitHub](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250324_r)

- Summary
    - simpler things are OK
    - more difficult things
        - more time?
        - less material?

#### Comments by us

- [Richel] The course is an introduction course. I feel the start-up parts
  are given too little time, to allow for things that I do not consider
  being beginner topics. I feel beginner things need/deserve their time,
  instead over being sacrificed it for more sexy topics.

  - [ ] Suggest to remove 'Machine learning'
      - [Björn] more and more demand for this (right?)
          - [Richel] This may be, but should it come at a cost of the foundational topics? 
            Putting it in an intermediate course could be a possible fix
  - [ ] Suggest to remove 'Parallel'
      - [Björn] although not that common, this is on of the cores
          - [Richel] There is no other session that build on this one, hence
            I would not call it a foundational/beginner topic.
            Putting it in an intermediate course could be a possible fix
  - [ ] Suggest to remove 'Isolated environments'
      - [Björn] To my knowledge this is not use extensively, 
        although for reproducibility it maybe should (I don't know the community well) 
          - [Richel] This may be, but should it come at a cost of the foundational topics? 
            Putting it in an intermediate course could be a possible fix

  Given the extra time freed up by removing 2 out of the 3 topics above,
  below is a suggested schedule that would fit better. At 15:15 the 1 topic
  not removed can take place

    ```text
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | Time  | Topic                        | Teacher(s)   |
    +=======+==============================+==============+
    | 9:00  | (optional) First login       | BB + PO + RB |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 9:45  | Break                        | .            |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 10:00 | Introduction                 | RB           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 10:10 | Syllabus                     | RB           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 10:20 | Load modules and run         | RB           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 11:00 | Break                        | .            |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 11:15 | Packages                     | BB           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 12:00 | Lunch                        | .            |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 13:00 | Batch                        | BB           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 14:00 | Break                        | .            |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 14:15 | Simultaneous session         | .            |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | .     | HPC2N: ThinLinc, RStudio     | PO           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | .     | LUNARC: On-Demand, RStudio   | RP           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | .     | UPPMAX: Interactive, RStudio | RB           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 15:00 | Break                        | .            |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 15:15 | To be decided by vote        | ?            |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 15:45 | Summary and evaluation       | RB           |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    | 16:00 | Done                         | .            |
    +-------+------------------------------+--------------+
    ```



#### Acting points and responsible


### MATLAB

- Evaluations
    - [Matlab evaluation survey, results](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UOUZBSEZNNlFPOURLMTAyQjFHRTVMTUJDWi4u)
    - [On GitHub](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250325_matlab)

- Summary
    - 1 did not recommend
    - missing 5s
        - jupyter
        - GPU
        - client on desktop (is this the UPPMAX local)
        - parallel
    - large divergence in confidence 
        - GPUS
        - view add-ons
        - parallel
    - no nead for real-time reading
    - future topics: 3rd party tools

- Comments from us:
    - BC: 
        - restructure the 2 batch sessions
        - more info-hiding (stuff they can cover themselves)

#### Schedule

- is GPU removed?

Start    |Timing|Topic                            |Teacher
---------|-|--------------------------------|-------
**9:00** ||Log-in                      |
**9.45** || Break
**10:00** ||Syllabus                     |Rebecca
**10:15** ||Matlab in general            |Rebecca
**10:25** ||Load modules and run + script  |Rebecca + person from each HPC center
**10:50** ||Break                            |.
**11:05**||Slurm job scheduler and Matlab  |Birgitte
**12:00**||LUNCH                            |.
**13:00**||Matlab GUI and Slurm|Pedro & Rebecca
**13:30**||Parallel and multithreaded functions          45   |Pedro
**13:50**||Break                            |.
**14:00**||Parallel and multithreaded functions     **14:30**||**Slurm (just command line)**|         Birgitte 
**14:50**||Break                            |.
**15:05**||Simultaneous SESSIONS - desktop on demand (COSMOS) 30m|Rebecca
-||Simultaneous SESSIONS - local desktop (UPPMAX) 30 m|Björn
-|| 30 m Simultaneous SESSIONS - (jupyter notebook)|Pedro
**15:35**||interaction with other tools (skip this year)|?
**15:35**||Conclusion           |All
**15:40**||Evaluation                       |.
**15.50**||Q/A
**16:00**||END          

#### Acting points and responsible

- Working group to meet when?



### Julia

- Evaluations
    - [Julia evaluation survey, results](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UQzRLRE83Nlc2MEFZQldTV0IzTEYzTjhVNy4u)
    - [On GitHub](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250326_julia)

- Summary
    - at least one puts a 5 all the time!
    - large divergence in confidence 
        - install julia package
        - envs
        - interactive
        - batch script
    - good teaching
    - asks for ML and more GPU hands-on

- Comments from us:
    - BC: 
        - more info-hiding (stuff they can cover themselves)
    

#### Schedule

Start     |Timings|Topic                |Teacher
---------|-|----------------------------|-------
**9.00** |45|Log-in help + tarball? |
**9.45** ||Break   |
**10.00** |15|Syllabus (exercises)                      |Björn
**10.15** |10|Intro, Julia in general         |Pedro
**10.25** |30|Load modules and run          |Björn
**10:55** ||Break                              |.
**11:10**|50|Packages and isolated            |Pedro (and Björn)
**12:00**||LUNCH                              |.
**13.00**|50|Batch and GPU     46               |Pedro
**13.50**||Break                              |.
**14:05**|45|Parallel+multithreaded functions 30|Pedro
**14.50**||Break                              |.
**15.00**|25|UPPMAX: Jupyter and interactive 25 |Björn
.        |25|HPC2N: Jupyter                     |Pedro
**15.25**||Conclusion and summary, Q/A        |Björn
**15.30**||Evaluation                                  |.
**15.40**||Q/A                                |.
**16.00**||END                                |.


#### Acting points and responsible

- Working group to meet when?




------

## Debriefing meeting April 10 at c. 15.40

- Evaluations
    - R evaluation survey, results: https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UNlFDSDVIVFdFTjI3UEoyV1pRMUY1SExHTS4u
full version attached
        - [on GitHub](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250324_r)

    - Matlab day: https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UOUZBSEZNNlFPOURLMTAyQjFHRTVMTUJDWi4u
        - [On GitHub](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250325_matlab)

    - Julia day: https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UQzRLRE83Nlc2MEFZQldTV0IzTEYzTjhVNy4u
        - [On GitHub WIP](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250326_julia)

- R
    - simpler things are OK
    - more difficult things
        - more time?
        - less material?


## Earlier meetings

[Meeting 20 March](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/meeting_notes/20250320.md)

[All meetings](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/meeting_notes)
