
# Meeting 24 Jan

## Agenda

- Background
- What to do differently this time
- What goes to what days & teachers
- Learning outcomes
- Resources
- How to advertise?
- Next meeting
- Next meeting R-matlab-julia

## Background

As discussed in a hurry in December when setting dates

- New course/workhop with 4 days of python
- **APPROX**
    - 24 Apr: [intro to Python](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python) 24 April
        - beginners or warm-up
        - ?the other days not recommended for complete beginners? 
            - Too short of time maybe to digest?
            - Or let the users decide :+1: [name=RB] <---
      - separate registration? :+1: [name=RB]
          - Advertisement for all 4 days, learners pick on registration
    - 25 Apr packages, pandas, matplotlib
        - some higher analysis later april?
    - 28-29 Apr: slurm, parallel, big data, GPU and ML/DL/AI 
        - including some analysis, like seaborn and ?
    - Is this a good way?
        - [name=RB] Yes, this is fine
- **Proposal**
  - **1st day** with intro (similar or same as [Richel's 'NAISS Intro to Python' course on March 4th](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python/)) 
      - cluster modules: it is a NAISS course :-)
      - has a  login session
  - **2nd day** will be about packages and running on a cluster + basic analysis without slurm!!
      -  morning: packages, virt env
          - conda is used in many clusters
          - pip and possibly pixi? 
          - ?containers. We'll decide later :+1:
      - afternoon
          - analysis without slurm(?)
          - what fits in here?
          - [VOTED] IDE's
              - [name=RB] ?Jupyter 
              - [name=JY] ?Spyder
              - [name=JY] ?VScode
          - need interactive session

  - **3rd day** needs a introduction to slurm and GPUs
    - slurm, batch, interactive, on-demand
    - analysis requiring more than login resources 
    - (parallel), (big data), (GPU) 
  - **4th day** for the most advanced material
    - Anders Hast (InfraVis) comes as a guest teacher to talk about dimensionality reduction techniques. (or first day): must be before 'Machine learning' in the schedule, ~30-60 mins
    - Data preparation
    - (GPU), ML/DL/AI
    - ?Professional Python development, e.g. testing

   
- Material, timing and interactivity
    - NAISS 'Intro to Python' --> Day 1 ≈ 1:1 relation
    - Combine
        - Python day in 4-day course
            - more packaging
            - less analysis
            - less ML
        - HPC-python in 2 days
            - less packaging
            - more IDEs
            - more analysis
            - more ML/DL
        - much common material
            - login, run, slurm, parallel, packaging
        - --> 3 days into 3 days --> more relaxed and airy!!
            - BUT: include Anders Hast as well?

## What to do differently this time

- Evaluation outcome
    - [Link to Björn's summary](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/evaluations)
        - now in github
    - more exercises
- Reductions?
- Put evaluation results on website, a fancy result can be found at
  [this UPPMAX course](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshops/evaluations/20241111/)

## What goes to which day? And Teachers

- Earlier sessions from HPC-python (to be placed out)
    - intro (just first day?) [name=RB]
    - load (just first day?) [name=RB]
    - install packages (expanded) [name=BC]
    - Compute nodes [name=BB]
        - batch [name=BB]
        - interactive [name=B]
        - Desktop on demand [name=RP]
        - IDEs [name=BB]
    - matplotlib [name=RP]
    - GPU [name=BB]
    - Pandas [name=RP]
    - seaborn etc [name=RP]
    - parallel [name=PO]
    - big data and formats [name=BC]
    - Dimensionality reduction? [name=AH]
    - ML/DL [name=JY]

- Day 1 (copied from [NAISS 'Intro to Python'](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python/schedule/))

:warning: Does not include loading a module
- BC: could we have "loading lmod module" here?

 Time       | Topic
------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------
09:00-10:00 | Using the Python interpreter, includes login
10:00-10:15 | Break
10:15-11:00 | The way of the program, includes creating and running a script
11:00-11:15 | Break
11:15-12:00 | Working with Python scripts
12:00-13:00 | Break
13:00-14:00 | Variables, expressions and statements: variables
14:00-14:15 | Break
14:15-15:00 | Variables, expressions and statements: operators
15:00-15:15 | Break
15:15-15:45 | Variables, expressions and statements: user input
15:45-16:00 | Evaluation

- Day 2
    - [VOTED] IDEs

Time       | Topic
------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------
09:00-10:00 | .
10:00-10:15 | Break
10:15-11:00 | .
11:00-11:15 | Break
11:15-12:00 | .
12:00-13:00 | Break
13:00-14:00 | .
14:00-14:15 | Break
14:15-15:00 | .
15:00-15:15 | Break
15:15-15:45 | ?RB: Jupyter
15:45-16:00 | Evaluation

- Day 3
- Day 4



## Learning outcomes

- Useful
- We have most material, BUT
- what is the amount users can learn in 3-4 days?
- balance of
    - be confident in doing
        - many exercises
    - knowing big picture and knowing where look up details
        - showing
            - demos
        - mentioning
            - talk
            - discuss
        - link to good material for plunging into
    - BC's view: all are needed, not just one or 2

- where to put the level in this course?
    - different in different sessions?
- Learning Outcomes
    - learner-centered
    - make material from these!



## Resources

- NSC for non-users
- as usual + dardel

## How to advertise?

- Each day having a name describing content?

## How to work?

- issues
- meetings (how often)
- matrix (phase out slack)
- combination


## ToDos
- All: 
    - Look at evaluation and think about changes
    - (LOs)
    - schedule
    - suggestions of more required time for sessions


## Next meeting

- [x] Fri Feb 14 11-12

## Next meeting R-matlab-julia

- [x] Fri 31 Jan 11-12

---
