# Planning HPC Python at HPC2N and UPPMAX

## Materials pages

- material: <https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/index.html>
- source: <https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/docs>

## Dates spring 2026

None decided at the time of writing

See [the course schedule](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/docs/schedule.rst)

Course dates:

- 2026-04-20
- 2026-04-22
- 2026-04-23
- 2026-04-24

## Meeting 2026-02-26 14.00

Present:

- Birgitte
- Björn
- Jayant
- Pedro
- Richel
- Sahar
- Rebecca? Otherwise Sahar / Richel

### Goals

- Get on track
- Go through evaluation
- Identify needed changes (if time)
- Available teachers
- Advertise and registrations

### Agenda

- Teachers available (a list can be found below)
- Evaluations
- Changes
  - Sphinx --> Zensical
  - GitHub --> Gitlab?
    - Can learners make issues?
    - Would it work if the repo is private for us?
      - No! We need it for, e.g. downloading tarballs, allowing learners to submit a PR, etc.
  - big picture
- Advertise and registrations

### Teachers available

- 2026-04-20: Day 1: Richel
- 2026-04-22: Day 2: Richel's sessions go to Björn, Björn, Birgitte, Jayant, (Sahar)
- 2026-04-23: Day 3: ?Rebecca, Sahar as backup for Rebecca's sessions, Björn, Birgitte, Sahar
- 2026-04-24: Day 4: Birgitte, Jayant, Pedro

Misc:

- Birgitte will ask Joachim for status of Rebecca at the coordination meeting

### Evaluations

#### Overall

- Very few answered: 4-5
- want more about COSMOS-SENS because little documentation at LUNARC
- practical management of Conda/virtual environments on HPC: we can attempt to put it back in
- Workflow systems like NextFlow or Snakemake: this is other courses
  - We can consider adding 1 (all combined) or 3 (all separate) courses on workflows
  - NBIS, however, has  [a course 'Tools for reproducible research'](https://nbisweden.github.io/workshop-reproducible-research/home_schedule.html)
  - We'll leave it out for now
- I guess that Python, pandas, matplotlib and such could be prerequisites to the course and instead only focus on big data and HPC specifics
  - The order is right: Day 1 teaches Python needed for Day 2, the Day 3 morning teaches the prerequisites for its afternoon
  - We keep it as it is!
- The material is good, but the teaching technique is lacking.
  - Richel started off very good with a lot of interaction, breakout rooms and time for questions and doing things yourself.
    - Teachers decide on how to teach, as per usual
  - I liked this and that the exercises were part of the teaching, not meant to do during breaks, then you would never get breaks
    - There is the intention to add more time for exercises

#### Day 1

- [Day 1 had 3 responses](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/evaluations/20251127/) (38% fill-in rate)
- Success score: 90%
- Comments:
  - It's very nice to be able to through everything at your own pace, and still receive help/feedback on where you are, independent of the rest of the group.
  - The instructor was so helpful and friendly and helped me a lot in learning new stuff and solving issues I had during the day
  - Great teaching!
  - Great work with creating engagement

#### Day 2

- Numbers answering: 4
- Success score: 82%
- Best confidence: Find & load / Install Python packages
- Lowest: Check if in interactive session
  - This session is low on time (as is also mentioned by the learners)
  - There needs to be taught too much different ways
  - May fix itself when we have Arrhenius in the future
  - Working group decides on how to split the time up better and will schedule a meeting: BC, BB, JY, (RP)
- Comments:
  - Exercises were a bit less clear today, which ones we should do and when was a little confusing.
  - Because each HPC has different setup it is a bit uninteresting to walk through them all when I'm only concerned with the one I'm using
    - We feel we are doing this more already
  - a little bit tight
  - The time allocated isolated environments and launching IDEs from the command line did not seem adequate
  - I and some other seemed to be lost already at OnDemand, and interactive work.
    - So maybe you should make that session more interactive. Then it would have been easier to follow the other sessions after that.

#### Day 3

- Numbers answering: 5
- Success score: 66%
- Best confidence: Create plots in matplotlib
- Lowest: Create plots in Seaborn
  - May be a leftover from incomplete discussion on IDEs
- Comments:
  - when you get stuck in setting things up you then also loose on the learning
  - Overall a good setup of the course! It is hard to do the exercises because environments etc. has to be set, so I will have to go back later to finish.
  - Demonstrating everything with actual code and a more hands-on approach would be essential to better understand the core concepts.

#### Day 4

- Numbers answering: 4
- Success score: 52%
- Best confidence: Multiprocessing
- Lowest: Determine which ML/DL modules  are installed at centre
  - BC will try to make this better
- We will have InfraViz around again next time
- Comments
  - a bit too fast for me to really learn by following examples, too uncertain with setting up environments, connecting etc
    - People jump in on only Day 4, where the prerequisites (e.g. connecting) are taught earlier
    - Suggest: for each day, have a link to the requirements of that day
    - Maybe connection session in the morning? No, we tried this and nobody showed up.
  - more on basic usage with nodes, set up Jupyter, environments, loading modules
    - We assume he/she did not follow the earlier days ...

### Changes

- Sphinx --> Zensical
  - Let's wait until the other courses have moved on, as there is also a GitHub --> GitLab move
- GitHub --> GitLab
  - Let's wait until the other courses have moved on, as there is also a Sphinx --> Zensical move

- Big picture changes in lessons?

### Advertise and registrations

- NextCloud for registrations?
  - Mostly yes: everything should be there
  - Not for evaluations: Cannot use for evaluations with the version (of NextCloud) NAISS has now, as there is no checkboxgrid there. In the future we will move
  - Birgitte will do the registrations in NextCloud
- Will there be a Zoom organisation for NAISS?
  - That would be nice: so that we can add each other. It would make things much easier
  - We are told: 'Maybe'. Maybe this is not all too soon ...
    - Birgitte will keep asking for this
- Next course advertisement is next week
  - Birgitte will do this :-)
- Change content in Ads?
  - It is perfect!

## [Notes from previous meeting](20251114.md)
