# Planning HPC Python at HPC2N and UPPMAX

## Materials pages

- material: https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/index.html
- source: https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/docs

## Dates spring 2026

None decided at the time of writing

See [the course schedule](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/blob/main/docs/schedule.rst)

Course dates:

- 2026-04-20
- 2026-04-22
- 2026-04-23
- 2026-04-24

## Meeting 2026-06-12 10:30-11:30

Present:

- Birgitte
- Björn
- Jayant
- Pedro
- Richel

### Goals

- Talk about evaluations
- Next iteration

### Evaluations

General: large spread in confidence:
    - Always some that have high confidence and at least 1 that jave no idea even though attending
    - Discuss Goal: Have more "High" or less "low" or do we have to have "both"?
        - RB: I think a teacher may aim for 'high', but as far as I have searched the literature, I could not find a relation between this value and course quality, hence I ignore this value completely. I've only informally observed it to correlate to the day of the course (it decreases per day). The only value I see in self-assessed confidence is that there is less literature *against* it: course satisfaction has been more strongly proven to be useless to assess couse quality.

- Maybe, if our learners are new to Python, only follow Day 1?
- We are discussing different topics during the day. Without knowing
  everything, can they finish the course? I think that will be challenging
- Maybe we should make it clear what the level is of the different parts?
- Let us clarify what the level is of the different topics! 


#### Day 1

- [Day 1 full evaluation](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/evaluations/20260420/)

#### Day 2

- [Day 2 summary](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=k7DinfWHtk2f9p15nlCcACTnpCvp6qIi&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UQ0xXSUJZNzNWNDNDS0k5NFhWUklTWlVXUy4u) 
- [Day 2 full evaluation](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/evaluations/20260422_day_2)
    - Least confidence: virtual envs, IDEs, interactive, install
        - RB: as far as I've read about evaluations by learners, there is no use to compare the results (i.e. confidences) between sessions or teachers: only a teacher teaching the same session multiple times may think it is useful to see this number change
- Most problems with Dardel users
- The afternoon was split up differently this time

#### Day 3

- [Day 3 summary](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=k7DinfWHtk2f9p15nlCcACTnpCvp6qIi&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UNU8zQVhHVlYyQk5XMkU2NVlETzAzRzdIOC4u) 
- [Day 3 full evaluation](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/evaluations/20260423_day_3)
    - Least confidence: Formats Big data, Seaborn, Work inside Pandas
- Most problems with Dardel users
- We can point more to the NBIS courses on analysing big data
- We can point more to other courses in general


#### Day 4

- [Day 4 summary](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=k7DinfWHtk2f9p15nlCcACTnpCvp6qIi&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UMFg0QjU0Q1RGRFY5RjZYOVVTODk3OVpEOS4u) 
- [Day 4 full evaluation](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/evaluations/20260424_day_4)
    - Least confidence: parallelization, GPU, Tensorflow
- Maybe some learners will only join on Day 4, hence
  they may not have installed an ML virtual environment
  as done on Day 3. We adapt by the Day 4 courses by
  starting with a 'do this' (i.e. create the
  virtual env), then talk, then use the virtual env
- Should we add an Intermediate or
  Advanced Python Day? It is a lot of work
  and we expect to few learners to make it worth it.
  We seem to be leaning to a no.
  Instead, we could point more to other
  advanced courses
- We consider to make more connected exercises here
- We will make it more clear that they can get
  a course certificate for the days they attended

### Next iteration

- Keep day 1 outside or keep as refresher?
    - Refresher/prerequisite
- Should we extend the course by 1 more day?
  It is often mentioned in the evaluations.
  Some of us think we definitely should do so.
      - [DECIDED] Yes: BB, PO, JY
      - Neutral: BC 
      - No: RB
- If we extend the course, we can schedule these days
  over more weeks
     - One week: RB, BB
     - [DECIDED] Two weeks: BC (), BB, JY, RB, PO
     - Three weeks:
- There are many problems with Dardel. Can we use Arrhenius and if yes, should we focus om it?
    - Arrhenius will be main course project
        - Tetralith: will be decomissioned
        - Alvis: decomissioned or local (the hardware will be reused someplace or sold: we don't know :-) 
        - Dardel up until Dec (at least)
- Point more to other courses
- , prereqs etc

- Follow up in August/September, 
- Should we give this course in autumn yes/no?
    - Yes: BC, RB, BB
    - Neutral:
    - No:
- How often should we give this course?
  Maybe once a year, yet, due to the new HPC cluster
  Arrhenius, we should have an extra course to help
  these new Arrhenius uses
- Should we transition to:
    - NAISS GitLab
        - Yes: BC
        - Yes, but I would not do so if I would be boss: RB
        - Neutral
        - No
    - Zensical
        - Yes: BC, RB
        - Neutral: 
        - No:
- When should the next course be appoximately?
    - November (after Matplotlib): BC, RB, BB, JY
    - It has been put into [the shared NAISS training planning](https://nextcloud.naiss.se/f/70465) :+1:

## Meeting 2026-02-26 14.00

Present:

- Birgitte
- Björn
- Jayant
- Pedro
- Richel
- Sahar
- Rebecca? Otherwise Sahar / Richel 

### Goals

- Get on track
- Go through evaluation
- Identify needed changes (if time)
- Available teachers
- Advertise and registrations

### Agenda

- Teachers available (a list can be found below)
- Evaluations
- Changes
    - Sphinx --> Zensical
    - GitHub --> Gitlab?
        - Can learners make issues?
        - Would it work if the repo is private for us?
            - No! We need it for, e.g. downloading tarballs, allowing learners to submit a PR, etc.
    - big picture
- Advertise and registrations


### Teachers available
    
- 2026-04-20: Day 1: Richel
- 2026-04-22: Day 2: Richel's sessions go to Björn, Björn, Birgitte, Jayant, (Sahar)
- 2026-04-23: Day 3: ?Rebecca, Sahar as backup for Rebecca's sessions, Björn, Birgitte, Sahar
- 2026-04-24: Day 4: Birgitte, Jayant, Pedro

Misc:

- Birgitte will ask Joachim for status of Rebecca at the coordination meeting

### Evaluations


#### Overall

- Very few answered: 4-5
- want more about COSMOS-SENS because little documentation at LUNARC
- practical management of Conda/virtual environments on HPC: we can attempt to put it back in
- Workflow systems like NextFlow or Snakemake: this is other courses
    - We can consider adding 1 (all combined) or 3 (all separate) courses on workflows
    - NBIS, however, has  [a course 'Tools for reproducible research'](https://nbisweden.github.io/workshop-reproducible-research/home_schedule.html)
    - We'll leave it out for now
- I guess that Python, pandas, matplotlib and such could be prerequisites to the course and instead only focus on big data and HPC specifics
    - The order is right: Day 1 teaches Python needed for Day 2, the Day 3 morning teaches the prerequisites for its afternoon
    - We keep it as it is!
- The material is good, but the teaching technique is lacking. 
    - Richel started off very good with a lot of interaction, breakout rooms and time for questions and doing things yourself.
        - Teachers decide on how to teach, as per usual 
    - I liked this and that the exercises were part of the teaching, not meant to do during breaks, then you would never get breaks
        - There is the intention to add more time for exercises

#### Day 1

- [Day 1 had 3 responses](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/evaluations/20251127/) (38% fill-in rate)
- Success score: 90%
- Comments:
    - It's very nice to be able to through everything at your own pace, and still receive help/feedback on where you are, independent of the rest of the group.
    - The instructor was so helpful and friendly and helped me a lot in learning new stuff and solving issues I had during the day
    - Great teaching!
    - Great work with creating engagement

#### Day 2

- Numbers answering: 4
- Success score: 82%
- Best confidence: Find & load / Install Python packages
- Lowest: Check if in interactive session
    - This session is low on time (as is also mentioned by the learners)
    - There needs to be taught too much different ways
    - May fix itself when we have Arrhenius in the future
    - Working group decides on how to split the time up better and will schedule a meeting: BC, BB, JY, (RP)
- Comments:
    - Exercises were a bit less clear today, which ones we should do and when was a little confusing. 
    - Because each HPC has different setup it is a bit uninteresting to walk through them all when I'm only concerned with the one I'm using
        - We feel we are doing this more already
    - a little bit tight
    - The time allocated isolated environments and launching IDEs from the command line did not seem adequate
    - I and some other seemed to be lost already at OnDemand, and interactive work.
        - So maybe you should make that session more interactive. Then it would have been easier to follow the other sessions after that.

#### Day 3

- Numbers answering: 5
- Success score: 66%
- Best confidence: Create plots in matplotlib
- Lowest: Create plots in Seaborn
    - May be a leftover from incomplete discussion on IDEs
- Comments:
    - when you get stuck in setting things up you then also loose on the learning
    - Overall a good setup of the course! It is hard to do the exercises because environments etc. has to be set, so I will have to go back later to finish.
    - Demonstrating everything with actual code and a more hands-on approach would be essential to better understand the core concepts.

#### Day 4

- Numbers answering: 4
- Success score: 52%
- Best confidence: Multiprocessing
- Lowest: Determine which ML/DL modules  are installed at centre
    - BC will try to make this better
- We will have InfraViz around again next time
- Comments
    - a bit too fast for me to really learn by following examples, too uncertain with setting up environments, connecting etc
        - People jump in on only Day 4, where the prerequisites (e.g. connecting) are taught earlier
        - Suggest: for each day, have a link to the requirements of that day
        - Maybe connection session in the morning? No, we tried this and nobody showed up.
    - more on basic usage with nodes, set up Jupyter, environments, loading modules
        - We assume he/she did not follow the earlier days ...

### Changes

- Sphinx --> Zensical
    - Let's wait until the other courses have moved on, as there is also a GitHub --> GitLab move
- GitHub --> GitLab
    - Let's wait until the other courses have moved on, as there is also a Sphinx --> Zensical move

- Big picture changes in lessons?
 

### Advertise and registrations

- NextCloud for registrations?
    - Mostly yes: everything should be there
    - Not for evaluations: Cannot use for evaluations with the version (of NextCloud) NAISS has now, as there is no checkboxgrid there. In the future we will move
    - Birgitte will do the registrations in NextCloud
- Will there be a Zoom organisation for NAISS?
    - That would be nice: so that we can add each other. It would make things much easier
    - We are told: 'Maybe'. Maybe this is not all too soon ...
        - Birgitte will keep asking for this
- Next course advertisement is next week
    - Birgitte will do this :-)
- Change content in Ads?
    - It is perfect!



## [Notes from previous meeting](https://github.com/UPPMAX/HPC-python/tree/main/meeting_notes/20251114.md)

