## Autumn 2023

### Next Meeting 28 Nov
- Course:
    - registered: 31
- On-boarding:
    - common problems?
- Status:
    - 3.9.5
  - Björn
      - Site-packages added to first lesson
      - problem with mermaid in rst
      - will start to check functioning on Rackham
          - what is done already?
              - install packages
          - Björn checks Dask on Rackham
          - Birgitte checks for the batch session and ML session


### Next meeting 21 Nov 

- Status:
    - spelling is active
    - Björn
        - updated index, intro, mermaid
    - Birgitte
        - updated index + Q/A
        - one project for UPPMAX
            - others use existing kebne-projects



- To discuss:
    - recording 
        - during 
        - before 
        - after
    - Do we fill these slots with 40 minutes?
        - 13.00 parallel 55
            - live coding
            - exercise
            - dask: chunks, notebook
            - "read more": starPU
        - break 10
        - 14:05 GPU 40
        - 14:45 15 min break
        - 15:0 ML 35
        - 15: summary & Q/A

 - ToDos: 
     - Björn 
         - adds link check later (steals time)
         - test packages and scripts
         - dask at rackham
     - project numbers
     - Birgitte
         - ML and packages
         - extra exercise
     - Pedro
         - dask at kebnekaise
     - Evaluation
         - skip but inform more than usual in the end



 


### Next meeting 6 Nov 13:00
- Evaluation
- links to StarPU
- interesting with DASK chunks
- ToDo:s
  - BC: Intro
      - [ ] a little more hpc
          - diagram
          - mention purposes of the clusters
      - [x] state why we involve two centres
      - mention the editor as a tool for file creation and change
      - more info
          - exercise time
          - objectives
      - More to extra reading!
          - boxes with extra tips

- For the workshop
    - BO:s
        - have voluntary exercise rooms
        - silent room
        - paste messages to BO:s  in chat and/or document so one can re-read
            - checking in with students more frequently about if they are done or not
            - let students join the main room again when they are done
    - No time to cover all material
        - More to extra reading!
        - More time on code-along and exercises

#### Spring courses
- 15-18 Jan UPPMAX intro
- 18 Jan HPC2N intro
- 22-23 Jan Awk
- 13 Feb Singularity
- 12-14 March Py-jl-R
- May (flexible day) HPC-Python
- May/June Programming formalisms



### Meeting 30 Oct 13:00

- Helpdesk 1 hour, 16-17
- Have in mind:
    - do recordings before without students
        - or afterwards!
    - have more interaction during lecture
    - no flipped-class room (this time)
    - not show recordings during class time
    - decide like 2 weeks before
    - (zoom recording of oneself, for instance)
    - ToDos: See last meeting

### Meeting 24 Oct 15.15
* Suggestions from Björn
    * minimize packages sections
        * [x] links and keypoints from October course
    * although use venvs for course
    * More focus on the HPC
* Discuss
    * same timing: 9-16? **yes**
    *  need for on-boarding: **yes**
    *  recording: **Yes** but hoe
    *  more examples and exercises on how to use in HPC **Yes**
    *  DASK: **Yes**
    *  Are some packages specifically interesting for HPC? **Yes**
    *  Differences between ML packages, which are there, when are they used - with or without GPUs. CUDA. ML on CPU/GPU: **Yes**
    *  Inspiration from: 
        *  https://enccs.github.io/hpda-python/ 
        *  https://aaltoscicomp.github.io/python-for-scicomp/parallel/ 

* ToDos
    * embarassingly parallel?
    * [x] Björn updates UPPMAX web

#### Timings
|Session| May23 | Suggestions Dec23 | 
|-------|-------|----------|
|9.00 "Syllabus"| 10 | 10   |
|9.10 Intro| 10 | 10 |
9.20 Load-run + system inst. packages| 30 | 30 
9.50 **break**|15 |15
10.05 self-install. packages + isolated| 35 | 25
10:30 batch + arrays | 25 | 35
|11.05 break| 10 | 10
11.15 interactive + jupyter (together)| 30 | 30 |
11.45 |Exercises and informal chat + help
Lunch

|Session| May23 | Suggestions Dec23 | 
|-------|-------|----------|
13.00 parallel| 40| 40 |
13:40 GPU | 30 | 40 | 
14:20 break | | 10
14:30 ML (incl all exercises) | 40 | 40
15:10 Extra exercise time | 15 | 20
Sum| |
Q/A | 20 |
**sum**| 150| 

### Lecturer

|Session| Björn | Birgitte | Pedro|
|-------|-------|----------|------|
|"Syllabus"+intro| X | | 
Load-run+packages| X
self-inst. isolated | | X | 
batch| | X |
parallel| | | X
interactive| X
GPU| |  | X
ML (incl exercises)| | X
Exercises (exercises)| several different rooms |x|x
Question session (breakout)| X | X | X
Summary| X | X | X 


* Invitation



### Next meeting 11 Aug 11-12

- Content changes
  - more HPC!!!
  - more exercises!
  - assume students attend prereqs
  - how to do on other Naiss systems
      - tabs
      - or cheat sheets
- Newletter
    - dates
    - define prereqs
    - modify content text

### Meeting 15 June 11:00
- Dates (Oct-Dec)
    - py-R-jl
        - Oct 17-19 (Tue-Thu)
    - Git
        - 13-17 Nov
    - HPC-python
        - Dec 5
        - 1 day!!

    - Courses to have in mind to avoid clashes
        - Python for Scicomp
        - Programming formalisms (Dec?)
        - CR i Gothenburg (Nov/Dec?)
        - Bianca 1 day only (x2)

- Changes
  - more HPC!!!
  - more exercises!
  - assume students attend prereqs
  - how to do on other Naiss systems
      - tabs
      - or cheat sheets
